docs/source/guide/index.rst, before:

The radicle guide
==================

radicle is a language for building and interacting with chains of the Open
Source Network.  What these chains do--how they behave--is entirely up to you.

This guide provides an introduction to radicle--as a language, as a tool for
building chains, and as a means of interacting with existing chains.


An example
------------

As a running example, we'll create a chain for managing the issues of a
repository. We'll see how to define the format of issues that can be created;
how to define rights and permissions for certain types of interaction; and
how to allow for future changes to the chain.

.. code-block:: radicle

     (load! (find-module-file! "prelude.rad"))
     (def issues (ref { :open nil :closed nil }))
     (def system (ref {}))

     (def new-feature-request
       (fn [author description test-case]
         ...))

     (def new-bug-report
       (fn [author description test-case]
         ...))

     (def new-question
       (fn [author description]
         ...))

     (def close-issue ...)

     (def can-modify ...)

     (def modify-system ..)

     (write-ref system
       { :feature-handler new-feature-request
         :bug-handler new-bug-report
         :question-handler new-question
         :can-modify can-modify
       })


     (def handle-input
       (fn [expr]
         ...))


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2

  GettingStarted.md
  Basics.lrad
  Modules.lrad
  PatternMatching.lrad
  DataValidation.rst

Commit message:

Remove GettingStarted
and add a link to radicle.xyz installation instructions.

docs/source/guide/index.rst, after:

The radicle guide
==================

radicle is a language for building and interacting with P2P Radicle
Machines. What these machines do--how they behave--is entirely up to you.

This guide provides an introduction to radicle--as a language, as a tool for
building chains, and as a means of interacting with existing chains.

Please see the [installation
instructions](http://radicle.xyz/docs/index.html#installation-setup) to get
started.

An example
------------

As a running example, we'll create a chain for managing the issues of a
repository. We'll see how to define the format of issues that can be created;
how to define rights and permissions for certain types of interaction; and
how to allow for future changes to the chain.

.. code-block:: radicle

     (load! (find-module-file! "prelude.rad"))
     (def issues (ref { :open nil :closed nil }))
     (def system (ref {}))

     (def new-feature-request
       (fn [author description test-case]
         ...))

     (def new-bug-report
       (fn [author description test-case]
         ...))

     (def new-question
       (fn [author description]
         ...))

     (def close-issue ...)

     (def can-modify ...)

     (def modify-system ..)

     (write-ref system
       { :feature-handler new-feature-request
         :bug-handler new-bug-report
         :question-handler new-question
         :can-modify can-modify
       })


     (def handle-input
       (fn [expr]
         ...))


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2

  Basics.lrad
  Modules.lrad
  PatternMatching.lrad
  DataValidation.rst
